MACHINE LEARNING

Supervised, unsupervised and reinforced learning etc.

Supervised: Learns from the LABELLED data, generalize the prdictions on future data. Avoid "OVERFITTING" :: TRAINING
    Labelled data (Input-Output Pairs)
    For an input data, we label it, it can be continuous or discrete!   While training both these things are used! 

    After Training, the recieved output can use regressional algorothms or classification algorithms!
    First being for continuous output, the latter being for discrete output!

    1) Regressional algorithms
            f(x) -> y where x E R^n and y E R
    2) classification algorithms
            F(x) -> Y where x E R^n and y E {1,2, ... K classes}

    Training data -> ALGORITHM -> Hypothesis (which converts unseen data into prediction)
        These algos can be the following:
            Linear and Logistic Regression
            SVM
            Neural Networks
        
        Hypothesis is nothing but a function havign some parameters which will map a given input to an output (learned result).
        In regressional algos the goal is to minimize the loss while in the classification algos the goal is to minimize the misclassifications!

    OVERFITTING:
        Overfitting is a modeling error in statistics that occurs when a function is too closely aligned to a limited set of data points. 
        As a result, the model is useful in reference only to its initial data set, and not to any other data sets. Search internet!

    Example: Spam Detection, Document classification, NLP, Image Classification, Sequence Processing, Predictive Analysis etc.

UnSupervised Learning: No supervision i.e. we dont get any tabled data. The algo need to find patterns on its own like,
    CLUSTERING DATA (Grouping similar data points)

    The data isn't labelled, i.e. there is no Y side just the X.

    Example: Object Segmentation, User Segmentationm, Similarity Detection, Automatic Labelling

SemiSupervised Learning: 
    The data recieved is not labelled, but we can label some (very less) data, which can help better classify the data. Eg. Object Segmentation.

Reinforced Learning
    Very similar to how humans learn. Some hit and Trial involved.  
        * Agent: Which interacts with the environment.
        * Environment: The scenario in which agent works.
        * Goal: A combination of agent and environment makes up a state. There can be a start state and then a final state which can be our goal.
        * Action: To move from one state to another we need to perform ACTION.

Machine Learning Pipeline:
1) Data Generation
2) Data Cleaning 
3) Algos to find interesting patterns 
4) Deployment


DATA SCIENCE

Data science is an interdisciplinary field that uses scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract knowledge and insights from noisy, 
structured and unstructured data, and apply knowledge and actionable insights from data across a broad range of application domains.

Steps:
1) Capture, (data acquisition, data entry, signal reception, data extraction)
2) Maintain (data warehousing, data cleansing, data staging, data processing, data architecture)
3) Process (data mining, clustering/classification, data modeling, data summarization)
4) Analyze (exploratory/confirmatory, predictive analysis, regression, text mining, qualitative analysis)
5) Communicate (data reporting, data visualization, business intelligence, decision making).